Will skip first 1 records of the file
Columns with fewer than 100 different values will be suppressed
Input contains 249 columns
Read 1000 records (1001 lines read), each with 249 columns
column 2 only has 43 distinct values - suppressed
column 3 only has 10 distinct values - suppressed
column 4 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 6 only has 17 distinct values - suppressed
column 8 only has 30 distinct values - suppressed
column 10 only has 20 distinct values - suppressed
column 12 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 13 only has 73 distinct values - suppressed
column 15 only has 17 distinct values - suppressed
column 17 only has 10 distinct values - suppressed
column 19 only has 14 distinct values - suppressed
column 21 only has 20 distinct values - suppressed
column 23 only has 29 distinct values - suppressed
column 24 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 26 only has 82 distinct values - suppressed
column 27 only has 24 distinct values - suppressed
column 28 only has 37 distinct values - suppressed
column 29 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 30 only has 98 distinct values - suppressed
column 31 only has 67 distinct values - suppressed
column 33 only has 28 distinct values - suppressed
column 34 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 35 only has 84 distinct values - suppressed
column 37 only has 20 distinct values - suppressed
column 38 only has 31 distinct values - suppressed
column 39 only has 21 distinct values - suppressed
column 41 only has 17 distinct values - suppressed
column 42 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 43 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 44 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 45 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 46 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 47 only has 71 distinct values - suppressed
column 48 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 49 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 50 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 51 only has 14 distinct values - suppressed
column 52 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 53 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 54 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 55 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 56 only has 19 distinct values - suppressed
column 58 only has 82 distinct values - suppressed
column 59 only has 61 distinct values - suppressed
column 60 only has 25 distinct values - suppressed
column 61 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 62 only has 59 distinct values - suppressed
column 63 only has 17 distinct values - suppressed
column 65 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 66 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 67 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 68 only has 13 distinct values - suppressed
column 69 only has 15 distinct values - suppressed
column 70 only has 11 distinct values - suppressed
column 71 only has 14 distinct values - suppressed
column 72 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 73 only has 27 distinct values - suppressed
column 75 only has 40 distinct values - suppressed
column 76 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 77 only has 29 distinct values - suppressed
column 78 only has 10 distinct values - suppressed
column 79 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 80 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 81 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 82 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 83 only has 17 distinct values - suppressed
column 84 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 85 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 86 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 87 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 88 only has 38 distinct values - suppressed
column 90 only has 16 distinct values - suppressed
column 92 only has 33 distinct values - suppressed
column 93 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 94 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 95 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 96 only has 44 distinct values - suppressed
column 97 only has 37 distinct values - suppressed
column 102 only has 37 distinct values - suppressed
column 104 only has 11 distinct values - suppressed
column 105 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 106 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 107 only has 79 distinct values - suppressed
column 108 only has 31 distinct values - suppressed
column 111 only has 22 distinct values - suppressed
column 112 only has 30 distinct values - suppressed
column 113 only has 33 distinct values - suppressed
column 114 only has 11 distinct values - suppressed
column 115 only has 19 distinct values - suppressed
column 116 only has 20 distinct values - suppressed
column 117 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 118 only has 23 distinct values - suppressed
column 121 only has 16 distinct values - suppressed
column 122 only has 41 distinct values - suppressed
column 123 only has 74 distinct values - suppressed
column 124 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 125 only has 42 distinct values - suppressed
column 126 only has 36 distinct values - suppressed
column 127 only has 33 distinct values - suppressed
column 128 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 129 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 130 only has 14 distinct values - suppressed
column 131 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 132 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 133 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 134 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 135 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 136 only has 15 distinct values - suppressed
column 137 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 138 only has 11 distinct values - suppressed
column 139 only has 11 distinct values - suppressed
column 140 only has 19 distinct values - suppressed
column 141 only has 25 distinct values - suppressed
column 142 only has 24 distinct values - suppressed
column 146 only has 31 distinct values - suppressed
column 149 only has 36 distinct values - suppressed
column 150 only has 18 distinct values - suppressed
column 151 only has 21 distinct values - suppressed
column 152 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 153 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 154 only has 10 distinct values - suppressed
column 155 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 156 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 157 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 158 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 159 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 160 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 161 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 162 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 163 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 164 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 165 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 166 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 167 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 168 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 169 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 170 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 171 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 172 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 173 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 174 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 175 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 176 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 177 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 178 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 179 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 180 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 181 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 182 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 183 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 184 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 185 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 186 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 187 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 188 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 189 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 190 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 191 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 192 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 193 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 194 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 195 only has 2 distinct values - suppressed
column 196 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 197 only has 13 distinct values - suppressed
column 201 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 202 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 204 only has 85 distinct values - suppressed
column 205 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 206 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 207 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 208 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 209 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 210 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 211 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 212 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 213 only has 52 distinct values - suppressed
column 215 only has 12 distinct values - suppressed
column 216 only has 18 distinct values - suppressed
column 217 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 218 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 219 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 220 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 221 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 222 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
column 223 only has 8 distinct values - suppressed
column 224 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 225 only has 5 distinct values - suppressed
column 226 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 227 only has 13 distinct values - suppressed
column 228 only has 10 distinct values - suppressed
column 229 only has 49 distinct values - suppressed
column 230 only has 10 distinct values - suppressed
column 231 only has 13 distinct values - suppressed
column 233 only has 13 distinct values - suppressed
column 234 only has 14 distinct values - suppressed
column 236 only has 23 distinct values - suppressed
column 238 only has 18 distinct values - suppressed
column 239 only has 59 distinct values - suppressed
column 240 only has 6 distinct values - suppressed
column 242 only has 38 distinct values - suppressed
column 243 only has 10 distinct values - suppressed
column 244 only has 14 distinct values - suppressed
column 245 only has 9 distinct values - suppressed
column 246 only has 7 distinct values - suppressed
column 247 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 248 only has 4 distinct values - suppressed
column 249 only has 3 distinct values - suppressed
Columns suppressed = 207
Selected 42 columns for output
